Kickstart the Flow tutorial (#152)
protocol/nft-website: docs/tutorial/flow-nft-marketplace.md

A good analogy is an umpire-less tennis game where any dispute (like determining if the ball lands in the court) is distributed to all the audience to judge. Meanwhile, these audience members are also participating in the game, with the stake that makes them lose if they judge wrongly. This way, any small inconsistencies are likely caught and rejected fair and square. You are no longer trusting your bank. The eternal flow of ownerships hence becomes *trustless* because everyone is doing what's best for themselves.

"Why such emphasis on ownership?" you may ask. This is because Flow has the concept of resource ownership baked right into the smart contract core. Learning to visualize resource will help in understanding concepts in Flow, as you shall see very soon.

> ## Quick tour of Cadence

Author: Resolved 7588d44

        }

        // Returns the metadata of an NFT based on the ID.
        pub fun getTokenMetadata(id: UInt64): {String : String} {
            let metadata = self.ownedNFTs[id]?.metadata
            return metadata!
        }

        // Updates the metadata of an NFT based on the ID.
        pub fun updateTokenMetadata(id: UInt64, metadata: {String: String}) {
            for key in metadata.keys {
                self.ownedNFTs[id]?.metadata?.insert(key: key,  metadata[key]!)
            }
        }
    }

    // Public factory method to create a collection
    // so it is callable from the contract scope.
    pub fun createNFTCollection(): @NFTCollection {
        return <- create NFTCollection()
    }
}
```

That's a handful of new code. It will soon become natural to you with patience.

First we declare a mutable dictionary and store it in a variable named `ownedNFTs`. Note the new access modifier `pub(set)`, which gives public write access to the users.

This dictionary stores the NFTs for this collection by mapping the ID to NFT resource. Note that because the dictionary stores `@NFT` resources, we prepend the type with `@`, making itself a resource too.

> In the contructor method, `init()`, we instantiate the `ownedNFTs` with an empty dictionary. A resource also need a `destroy()` destructor method to make sure it is being freed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the contructor method, `init()`, we instantiate the `ownedNFTs` with an empty dictionary. A resource also needs a `destroy()` destructor method to make sure it is being freed.
```

> **💡 Nested Resource**
> A [composite structure][cdc-comp-type] including a dictionary can store resources, but when they do they will be treated as resources. Which means they need to be *moved* rather than *assigned* and their type will be annotated with `@`.

> The `withdraw(id: UInt64): @NFT` method remove an NFT from the collection's `ownedNFTs` array and return it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `withdraw(id: UInt64): @NFT` method removes an NFT from the collection's `ownedNFTs` array and return it.
```

The left-pointing arrow `<-` is known as a *move* symbol, and we use it to move a resource around. Once a resource has been moved, it can no longer be used from the old variable.

Note the `!` symbol after the `token` variable. It [force-unwraps][cdc-force-unwrap] the `Optional` value. If the value turns out to be `nil`, the program panics and crashes.

Because resources are core to Cadence, their types are annotated with a `@` to make them explicit. For instance, `@NFT` and `@NFTCollection` are two resource types.

> The `deposit(token: @NFT)` function takes the `@NFT` resource as a parameter and store it in the `ownedNFTs` array in this `@NFTCollection` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `deposit(token: @NFT)` function takes the `@NFT` resource as a parameter and stores it in the `ownedNFTs` array in this `@NFTCollection` instance.
```

The `!` symbol reappears here, but now it's after the move arrow `<-!`. This is called a [force-move or force-assign][cdc-force-assign] operator, which only moves a resource to a variable if the variable is `nil`. Otherwise, the program panics.

The `getTokenIds(): [UInt64]` method simply reads all the `UInt64` keys of the `ownedNFTs` dictionary and returns them as an array.

The `getTokenMetadata(id: UInt64): {String : String}` method reads the `metadata` field of an `@NFT` stored by its ID in the `ownedNFTs` dictionary and returns it.

The `updateTokenMetadata(id: UInt64, metadata: {String: String})` method is a bit more involved.

```rust
for key in metadata.keys {
    self.ownedNFTs[id]?.metadata?.insert(key: key,  metadata[key]!)
}
```

In the body of the method, we loop over all the keys of the given metadata, inserting into the current metadata dictionary the new value. Note the `?` in the call chain. It is used with `Optional`s values to keep going down the call chain only if the value is not `nil`.

We have successfully implemented the `@NFTReceiver` interface for the `@NFTCollection` resource.

### `NFTMinter`

> The last and very important component for our `PetStore` contract is `@NFTMinter` resource, which will contain an exclusive code for the contract owner to mint all the tokens. Without it, our store will not be able to mint any pet tokens. It is very simplistic though, since we have already blaze through the more complex components. Its only `mint(): @NFT` method creates an `@NFT` resource, give it an ID, save the address of the first owner to the contract (which is the address of the contract owner, although you could change it to mint and transfer to the creator's address in one step), increment the universal ID counter, and return the new token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last and very important component for our `PetStore` contract is `@NFTMinter` resource, which will contain an exclusive code for the contract owner to mint all the tokens. Without it, our store will not be able to mint any pet tokens. It is very simplistic though, since we have already blazed through the more complex components. Its only `mint(): @NFT` method creates an `@NFT` resource, gives it an ID, saves the address of the first owner to the contract (which is the address of the contract owner, although you could change it to mint and transfer to the creator's address in one step), increments the universal ID counter, and returns the new token.
```

    //   to the `NFTReceiver` interface. This is how we tell the contract that the functions defined
    //   on the `NFTReceiver` can be called by anyone.
    //
    // - The `NFTMinter` resource is saved in the account storage for the creator of
    //   the contract. Only the creator can mint tokens.
    init() {
        // Set `owners` to an empty dictionary.
        self.owners = {}

        // Create a new `@NFTCollection` instance and save it in `/storage/NFTCollection` domain,
        // which is only accessible by the contract owner's account.
        self.account.save(<-create NFTCollection(), to: /storage/NFTCollection)

        // "Link" only the `@NFTReceiver` interface from the `@NFTCollection` stored at `/storage/NFTCollection` domain to the `/public/NFTReceiver` domain, which is accessible to any user.
        self.account.link<&{NFTReceiver}>(/public/NFTReceiver, target: /storage/NFTCollection)

        // Create a new `@NFTMinter` instance and save it in `/storage/NFTMinter` domain, accesible
        // only by the contract owner's account.
        self.account.save(<-create NFTMinter(), to: /storage/NFTMinter)
    }
}
```

> Hopefully, the high-level steps are clear to you after you have followed through the comments. We will talk about domains briefly here. Domains are general-purpose storages accessible to Flow accounts common used for storing resources. Intuitively, they are similar to common filesystems. There are three domain namespaces in Cadence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hopefully, the high-level steps are clear to you after you have followed through the comments. We will talk about domains briefly here. Domains are general-purpose storages accessible to Flow accounts commonly used for storing resources. Intuitively, they are similar to common filesystems. There are three domain namespaces in Cadence:
```

        // This is familiar since we have done this before in the last `MintToken` transaction block.
        let receiverRef = recipient.getCapability<&{PetStore.NFTReceiver}>(/public/NFTReceiver)
            .borrow()
            ?? panic("Could not borrow receiver reference")

        // Deposit the NFT in the receivers collection
        receiverRef.deposit(token: <-self.token)

        // Save the new owner into the `owners` dictionary for look-ups.
        PetStore.owners[tokenId] = recipientAddr
    }
}
```

Recall that in the last steps of our `MintToken.cdc` code, we were saving the minted token to our account's `NFTCollection` reference stored at `/storage/NFTCollection` domain.

Here in `TransferToken.cdc`, we are basically creating a sequel of the minting process. The overall goal is to move the token stored in the sending source account's `NFTCollection` to the receiving destination account's `NFTCollection` by calling `withdraw(id: UInt64)` and `deposit(token: @NFT)` on the sending and receiving collections, respectively. Hopefully, by now it shouldn't be too difficult for you to follow along with the comments as you type down each line.

> Two new things that are worth noting are the first line of the `execute` block where we call a special built-in function `getAccount(_ addr: Address)`, which return an `AuthAccount` instance from an address passed as an argument to this transaction, and the last line, where we update the `owners` dictionary on the `PetStore` contract with the new address entry to keep track of the current NFT owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two new things that are worth noting are the first line of the `execute` block where we call a special built-in function `getAccount(_ addr: Address)`, which returns an `AuthAccount` instance from an address passed as an argument to this transaction, and the last line, where we update the `owners` dictionary on the `PetStore` contract with the new address entry to keep track of the current NFT owners.
```

Now, let's test out `TransferToken.cdc` by typing the command:

```bash
flow transactions send src/flow/transaction/TransferToken.cdc 1 0xf3fcd2c1a78f5eee

> Transaction ID: 4750f983f6b39d87a1e78c84723b312c1010216ba18e233270a5dbf1e0fdd4e6
>
> Status      ✅ SEALED
> ID          4750f983f6b39d87a1e78c84723b312c1010216ba18e233270a5dbf1e0fdd4e6
> Payer       f8d6e0586b0a20c7
> Authorizers [f8d6e0586b0a20c7]
>
> ...
```

> Recall that the `transaction` block of `TransferToken.cdc` accepts two arguments—A token ID and the recipient's address—which we passed as a list of arguments to the command. Some of you might wonder why we left out `--signer` flag for this transaction command, but not the other. Without passing the signing account's name to `--signer` flag, the contract owner's account is the signer by default (a.k.a the `AuthAccount` argument in the `prepare` block).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall that the `transaction` block of `TransferToken.cdc` accepts two arguments — A token ID and the recipient's address — which we passed as a list of arguments to the command. Some of you might wonder why we left out `--signer` flag for this transaction command, but not the other. Without passing the signing account's name to `--signer` flag, the contract owner's account is the signer by default (a.k.a the `AuthAccount` argument in the `prepare` block).
```

    let receiverRef = ownerAcct.getCapability<&{PetStore.NFTReceiver}>(/public/NFTReceiver)
        .borrow()
            ?? panic("Could not borrow receiver reference")

    // Happily delegate this query to the owning collection
    // to do the grunt work of getting its token's metadata.
    return receiverRef.getTokenMetadata(id: id)
}
```

Now, execute the script:

```bash
flow scripts execute src/flow/script/GetTokenMetadata.cdc <TOKEN_ID>
```

If we have minted an NFT with the metadata `{"name": "Max", "breed": "Bulldog"}` in the [previous minting step](#minttoken-transaction), then that is what you will get after running the script.

### `GetAllTokenIds` (Bonus)

This script is very short and straightforward, and it will become handy
when we build a UI to query tokens based on their IDs.

```rust
// GetAllTokenIds.cdc

import PetStore from 0xPetStore

pub fun main() : [UInt64] {
    // We basically just return all the UInt64 keys of `owners`
    // dictionary as an array to get all IDs of all tokens in existence.
    return PetStore.owners.keys
}
```

Et voila! You have come very far and dare I say you are ready to start building your own Flow NFT app.

> However, user experience is a crucial part in any app. It is more than likely that your users won't be as proficient at the command line as you do. Moreover, it is a bit boring for an NFT store to have faceless NFTs. In the next section, we will start tackling the fun part: building the UI on top and using [nft.storage][nft-storage] service to upload and store images of our NFTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, user experience is a crucial part in any app. It is more than likely that your users won't be as proficient at the command line as you are. Moreover, it is a bit boring for an NFT store to have faceless NFTs. In the next section, we will start tackling the fun part: building the UI on top and using [nft.storage][nft-storage] service to upload and store images of our NFTs.
```

```js
{
    name: "Max",
    age: 3,
    breed: "Bulldog",
    // ...
}
```

We then have to convert it to an array of `{key: string, value: string}` in JavaScript:

```js
[
    {key: "name", value: "Max"},
    {key: "age", value: "3"},
    {key: "breed", value: "Bulldog"},
]
```

This was what `toCadenceDict` function did, plus deleting the `image` attribute from the pet object because we didn't need it for minting on Flow.

After properly converting the object, we had to build a "payload" by calling `fcl.args` and pass an array of arguments. In this case, the metadata of type `[{key: string, value: string}]`.  To facilitate this, we used types from `fcl.types` library.

Next, we fetch the corresponding `MintToken.cdc` raw code. This is a standard way of fetching raw text from another module.

Now comes the meaty part of this function: Sending a transaction.

```js
const encoded = await fcl.send([
  fcl.transaction(code),
  fcl.payer(fcl.authz),
  fcl.proposer(fcl.authz),
  fcl.authorizations([fcl.authz]),
  fcl.limit(999),
  payload,
]);
```

> There is a few ways to send a transaction, but `fcl.send([...])` is the most explicit way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few ways to send a transaction, but `fcl.send([...])` is the most explicit way.
```

  // We want to include the IPFS URL to the blockchain, so we can
  // "unpack" the token data when we query it later. So we create
  // a new object with all of the pet's attributes plus `url`.
  const txId = await mintPet({ ...pet, url });
  return txId;
}

// Don't forget to export the function.
export default mintToken;
```

Our `mintToken` function is ready to work. We should return to `Form.js`, add a `handleSubmit` handler (right after `setAge` function), and pass to the `onSubmit` prop on the `<form>` element.

```js
// Form.js

// On the top most of the module
import mintToken from '../flow/transaction/MintToken.tx';

const Form = () => {

  // ... setAge function ...

  const handleSubmit = async (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();
    try {
      await mintToken(pet);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    }
  }

  return (
    <div style={style}>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>

        {/* ... other elements ... */}

      </form>
    </div>
  );
```

This wraps up the minting step! Here is the [full code][source] for a handy reference. Now you can test the UI, select an image file, fill up the metadata on the form, and click the mint button.

> Feel free to sit back and appreciate what you have achieved. Now is the time to fill up your coffee and take a well -deserved break before we move on to the last bit: querying a token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feel free to sit back and appreciate what you have achieved. Now is the time to fill up your coffee and take a well-deserved break before we move on to the last bit: querying a token.
```

related:
  'How to Create NFTs Like NBA Top Shot With Flow and IPFS': https://medium.com/pinata/how-to-create-nfts-like-nba-top-shot-with-flow-and-ipfs-701296944bf
  'Mint an NFT with IPFS': https://docs.ipfs.io/how-to/mint-nfts-with-ipfs/#a-short-introduction-to-nfts
---

# Building an NFT Marketplace on Flow

This tutorial will teach you to create a simple NFT marketplace on [Flow][flow] from scratch and deploying it on the testnet.

## Table of content (WIP)

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [What you will learn](#what-you-will-learn)
- [Ownership and Resource](#ownership-and-resource)
  - [Resource](#resource)
  - [Accounts](#accounts)
  - [Contract](#contract)

## Prerequisites

Although this tutorial is built specifically for Flow, it will build up a general understanding of smart contract and NFTs. Therefore, you are expected to have a working JavaScript and [React.js][react] knowledge and a basic familiarity with blockchains, web3, and NFTs.

You will need to install [Node.js][nodejs] and npm (comes with Node.js), [Flow command line tool][flow-cli], and [Docker compose][docker-compose] to follow this tutorial.

> You can use any code editor of your choice, but I recommend [VSCode][vscode] with [Cadence Language support][vscode-cdc-ext] for smooth sailing experience.

Author: Good point.

> **💡 Why React?**    
> React.js was chosen for this tutorial because it is the most widely-used UI library that
> arguably takes away the tediousness of setting up a JavaScript app
> and the state management. You are welcome to work with another library
> or framework if you are happy to take on the additional work of
> taking the [road less travelled][robert-frost-poem] approach.

If you are not familiar with the concept of smart contracts and NFTs, it is worth zipping through [blockchain][blockchain-basic] and [NFT][nft-basic] basics before diving in.

## What you will learn

You will learn the basic NFT building blocks from the ground up, such as:

 - Smart contracts and the [Cadence language][cadence]
 - User authentication
 - Minting and storing tokens' metadata on [Filecoin/IPFS][nft-storage]
 - Transferring tokens

As we build a minimal version of the [Flowwow NFT pet store][flowwow] together.

> If you would like to go through a structured, step-by-step tutorial, the chapter-by-chapter project is available on [Github][mini-petstore].

Author: My first intention was to have a repo scaffold, but I think it might be a bit confusing so I'll remove the template idea.

> bank and you want to withdraw tomorrow, your teller might freak out.

What is novel about blockchain is the distributed part. Because the ledger is *decentralized*, there is no central authority like a bank for you to trust with the bookkeeping. You are simply trusting other people running the same ledger software as you to keep track of everyone's book. Think of it as a sport game without the referee or umpire where any dispute is distributed to all the audience to judge. The only difference is these audience members are also playing in the arena, with the stake that makes it extremely bad for them to cheat. This way, any small inconsistencies are likely caught and rejected fair and square. You are no longer trusting your bank. The eternal flow of ownerships hence becomes *trustless* because everyone is doing what's best for themselves.

"Why such emphasis on ownership?" you may ask. This is because Flow has the concept of resource ownership baked right into the smart contract core. In fact, it is why Flow is one of the easiest blockchains for building NFT apps, which you shall see very soon.

## Cadence

> Like Solidity for Ethereum, we use [Cadence][cadence] to code smart contracts, transactions, and scripts for Flow. Cadence's design is inspired by [Rust][rust] and the *move semantic*. Basically, the runtime tracks when a resource is being *moved* from a variable to another variable and makes sure it can never be used twice in the program.

Author: That sounds right!

The three types of Cadence program you will be writing are [contracts](contract), [transactions][transaction], and [scripts][script].

### Contract

A contract is an initial program that gets deployed to the blockchain, initiating the logic for your app and allowing access to resources you create and the capabilities that come with them.

Two most common constructs in a contract are resources and interfaces.

#### Resources

Resources are items stored in user accounts that are accessible
through access control measures defined in the contract. They are usually the assets being tracked. They are akin to classes or structs in some languages.

Resources can only be in one place at a time, and they are said to be *moved* rather than *assigned*.

#### Interfaces

Interfaces define the behaviors or capabilities of resources. They are akin to interfaces in some languages. They are usually implemented by resources.

> Here is an example of an `NFT` resource and a `Ownable` interface (ala [ERC721][erc-721]) in the `PetStore` contract:

Author: I didn't know it was French ;)

>
> However, for this tutorial, we want to focus on understanding the basics. So, we will be building
> our own version of things from the ground up.

We will be taking some time to write the contract while also learn Cadence. Once you have grasped it, writing transactions and scripts will be relatively easy.

First, create the contract structure and define an `NFT` resource:

```cadence

pub contract PetStore {

    // An array that stores NFT owners
    pub var owners: {UInt64: Address}

    pub resource NFT {

        // Unique ID for each NFT
        pub let id: UInt64

        // String mapping to hold metadata
        pub var metadata: {String: String}

        // Constructor method
        init(id: UInt64, metadata: {String: String}) {
            self.id = id
            self.metadata = metadata
        }
    }
}

```

Note that we have declared a [Dictionary][cdc-dict-type] and store in a variable named `owners`. This dictionary has the type `{UInt64: Address}` which maps [unsigned 64-bit integers][cdc-integer-type] to users' [Addresses][cdc-address-type]. We will use `owners` to keep track of all the current owners of NFTs globally.

> Next, we instantialize the array with a `nil` stored as the first element in the `init()` constructor method. In Cadence, it is an error

Author: Which line?

> Next, we instantialize the array with a `nil` stored as the first element in the `init()` constructor method. In Cadence, it is an error

Author: Resolved 1e415f1

Also note that the `owners` variable is prepended by a `var` keyword, while the `id` variable is prepended by a `let` keyword. In Cadence, a mutable variable is defined using `var` while an immutable one is defined with `let`.

> **💡 Immutable vs mutable**    
> In Cadence, a variable stores a mutable variable that can be changed
> later in the program while a *binding* binds an immutable value that

> > cannot be changed.

Author: No, they aren't.

        pub fun deposit(token: @NFT)

        // Get all NFT IDs belonging to this NFTReceiver instance.
        pub fun getTokenIds(): [UInt64]

        // Get the metadata of an NFT instance by its ID.
        pub fun getTokenMetadata(id: UInt64) : {String: String}

        // Update the metadata of an NFT.
        pub fun updateTokenMetadata(id: UInt64, metadata: {String: String})
    }
}

```

Let's not get over ourselves and go through the `NFTReceiver` interface line-by-line.

The `withdraw(id: UInt64): @NFT` method takes an NFT's `id`, withdraws a token, or an *instance* of `NFT` resource, which is prepended with a `@` to mean reference to a resource.

The `deposit(token: @NFT, metadata: {String : String})` method takes a token reference type and the metadata dictionary with a `String` key and `String` value, and deposits or transfers the `@NFT` to the current instance of `NFTReceiver`.

The `getTokenIds(): [UInt64]` method access all tokens' IDs owned by the instance of the `NFTReceiver`.

The `getTokenMetadata(id: UInt64) : {String : String}` method takes an ID of an `NFT`, read the metadata, and return the it as a dictionary.

### `NFTCollection`

> Now let's create an `NFTCollection` resource to implement the `NFTReceiver` interface. Think of this as a "vault" where NFTs are deposited to and withdrawn from.

Author: Thanks for the tip.

Let's create a script file named `GetTokenOwner.cdc` under the `script` directory. As you can see it is quite straightforward:

```cadence

// GetTokenOwner.cdc

import PetStore from 0xf8d6e0586b0a20c7

// All scripts start with the `main` function,
// which can take an arbitrary number of argument and return
// any type of data.
//
// This function accepts a token ID and returns an Address.
pub fun main(id: UInt64): Address {

    // Access the address that owns the NFT with the provided ID.
    let ownerAddress = PetStore.owners[id]!
    return ownerAddress
}

```

All scripts have an entry function called `main`, which can take any number of arguments and return any data type.

This script simply accesses the `owners` dictionary in the `PetStore` contract using the token ID and returns the address of the token's owner, or fail if the value is `nil`.

It's worth repeating myself this: Scripts do not require any gas fee and authorization. They are just programs that reads public data on the blockchain.

> Executing a script with Flow CLI is also pretty straightforward:

Author: Thanks for the great advice!

### Front-end app

> **💡 Do you know React?**    
> In this part of the tutorial, we will work with React.js extensively.
> Because learning React is unfortunately out of the scope, if you think
> you will need some introduction or brush-up on React, please head over
> to [Intro to React][react-intro] tutorial before returning here.

Our NFT pet store is fully functional at the command line, but without a face, it is too hard for end users to use.

Very often, especially for [decentralized applications][dapps] whose back-ends rely heavily on blockchains and other decentralized technology, the user experience is what makes or breaks them. Quite often, the user-facing part *is* the only crucial part in a dapp.

In this section, we will be working on the UI for the pet store app in React.js. While you're expected to have some familiarity with the library, I will do my best to use common features instead of trotting into advanced ones.

> After we are done, we will end up with a simple marketplace app that users can mint and query their NFTs that is similar to this:

Author: Which sentence in particular?

> After we are done, we will end up with a simple marketplace app that users can mint and query their NFTs that is similar to this:

Reviewer: I might split it into two sentences:

```suggestion
After we are done, we will end up with a simple marketplace app that users can mint and query their NFTs. It will be similar to this:
```

![finished-marketplace](./images/flow-nft-marketplace/flow-nft-marketplace-finish.png)

### Setting up

Make sure you are in the project directory (next to `package.json`). Install the following packages:

```shell

$ npm install --save @onflow/fcl @onflow/types nft.storage

```

The Flow packages will help in connecting our React app to the Cadence code. The `nft.storage` package will help in uploading the image during minting and retrieving data from Filecoin/IPFS network. In order to do so, you will need to [sign up][nft-storage] and generate an API key. After you have signed up, navigate to the "API Keys" tab, and click to create a new key, as shown here:

![Screenshot of NFT.Storage API Keys page](./images/flow-nft-marketplace/nft-storage-api-keys.png)

> Take down the key as we will need it later on when we work on the [minting logic](#minting-logic).

Author: You're right. It's obscure.

> Take down the key as we will need it later on when we work on the [minting logic](#minting-logic).

Author: Done!

  const readFiles = (event) => {
    const files = event.target.files;
    if (files.length > 0) {
      setPet({...pet, file: files[0]});
    }
  };

  return (
    <div className="">
      <label for="fileInput">Image</label>
      {/* Add readFiles as the onChange handler. */}
      <input type="file" onChange={readFiles} />
    </div>
  );
};

export default FileSelector;

```

If you import `Form.js` component into `App.js` and insert it anywhere inside the main `App` container, you should see your form that looks similar to the one you see below:

  ![Screenshot of form component](./images/flow-nft-marketplace/form.png)

> **💡 How I write code**    
> The way I write code is to write very small unit at a time, then
> test that it works as intended, then if it might be reusable, wrap
> it in a function. Then I repeat.
>
> This makes perfect sense. The more code we write, the harder it is
> to debug and go back to fix something. It is always better to write > less code in general.
>
> Here, I would include `console.log()` in each event handler, then
> test clicking the form to make sure the logged values are what I
> expected before moving on.

> ## Minting logic

Reviewer 2: In this section (1235-1317) you have explanation-code-explanation. Is there a good way to combine/consolidate explanations so the explanations aren't separated by the code example?

Author: Let me work on this.

Here comes the interesting part. We will hook up the `Mint` button to actually mint a token based on user's input!

Switching gears here, let's head over to `/src/flow/transaction` and create a new JavaScript file named `MintToken.tx.js`. This module will send the Cadence transaction `MintToken.cdc` similarly to how we have used Flow CLI to do so previously.

Here I create a JavaScript module that interacts with each Cadence transaction or script and name it to reflect the Cadence code, appended by `.tx.js` or a transaction or `.sc.js` for a script. This is not a requirement and you're free to name them however you want.

Since there will be quite a lot going on, we will go slowly on this one. We will create a `mintToken` function that takes a `pet` object and does the following:

> 1. Upload the metadata and image asset to NFT.storage, and retrieve the returned metadata that includes the [CID][ipfs-cid] of the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Upload the metadata and image asset to NFT.storage, and retrieve the returned metadata that includes the [CID][ipfs-cid] of the data.
```
```suggestion
1. **Upload to NFT.storage.** This uploads the metadata and image asset to NFT.storage, and retrieves the returned metadata that includes the [CID][ipfs-cid] of the data.
```

> 2. Send a minting transaction with the metadata to Flow (in this case, the name, age, breed, and the CID of the data stored on IPFS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Send a minting transaction** with the metadata to Flow (in this case, the name, age, breed, and the CID of the data stored on IPFS).
```

> 3. If successful, return the Flow transaction ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Return the Flow transaction ID** if successful.
```

> Here we sketch up some placeholder functions to reflect the steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's sketch up some placeholder functions to outline the steps:
```

```js

// MintToken.tx.js

async function mintToken(pet) {
  let metadata = await uploadToStorage(pet);
  let txId = await mintPet(metadata);
  return txId;
}

> /* We will fill in these functions next */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// We will fill in these functions next
```
Match prior comment style?

async function uploadToStorage(pet) {
    return {};
}

async function mintPet(metadata) {
    return '';
}

```

> **💡 Where to catch an error?**
> Asynchronous functions which return a `Promise` are *fallable*. Conventionally, you should prepare for the worst
> by catching the error. But the question is where to do this?
> The general rule here is if a function does not know what to do with the error, don't catch it. Delegate this responsibility
> to the caller who, hopefully, will know better. In the previous `mintToken` function, we didn't
> handle the error because we wanted the calling function to handle it.
> This way, you are not making things worse by complicating the code with unnecessary `try-catch` blocks that only obscure
> the errors. Let the one who knows better deals with it.

> Next, we will fill in the body of `uploadToStorage` function. This is where you will need your API key from NFT.Storage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, fill in the body of `uploadToStorage` function. You will need your API key from NFT.Storage:
```

```js

> // Import these modules from nft.storage on top of the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Import required modules from nft.storage
```

import { NFTStorage, File } from 'nft.storage';

const API_KEY = "DROP_YOUR_API_KEY_HERE";

> // Initialize the NFTStorage client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Initialize the NFTStorage client
```

Most of your other code doesn't have periods in comments. Let's choose one style for consistency's sake

const storage = new NFTStorage({ token: API_KEY });

async function uploadToStorage(pet) {
  // Call `store(...)` on the NFTStorage client with an object
  // containing all of pet's attributes, and required image and
  // description attributes.
  let metadata = await storage.store({
    ...pet,
    image: pet.image && new File([pet.image], `${pet.name}.jpg`, { type: 'image/jpg' }),
    description: `${pet.name}'s metadata`,
  });

  // If all goes well, return the metadata.
  return metadata;
}

```

> The step was simple. `NFTStorage.store(...)` takes an object with arbitrary attributes and two required `image` and `description` attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Upload to NFT.Storage

`NFTStorage.store(...)` takes an object with arbitrary attributes and two required attributes, `image` and `description`. (Contrary to its name, the `image` attribute does not require an image file. It takes a `File` object which can contain any type of asset.)
```

> Confusingly, `image` attribute does not necessarily take only an image file. It takes a `File` object (which means any type of assets). We used the `File` contructor imported from the library to create the object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
(combined into above)

> The `description` attribute can obvious be any arbitrary text you want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `description` attribute can be any arbitrary text up to $MAXLENGTH.
```
@yusefnapora @dchoi27  is there a max length, size, or other restrictions on `description` attribute?

Then, we return the metadata returned from the call to the caller.

> Once we have the metadata from uploading to NFT.storage, we will have to send a transaction to mint the token on Flow with the metadata. Let's fill up the `mintPet` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Send a minting transaction

Once we have the metadata from uploading to NFT.storage, we will have to send a transaction to mint the token on Flow with the metadata. Let's fill up the `mintPet` function.
```

    fcl.arg(
      dict,
      t.Dictionary({ key: t.String, value: t.String }),
    )
  ]);

  // Fetch the Cadence raw code.
  const code = await (await fetch(cdc)).text();

  // Send the transaction!
  // Note the `userAuthz` function we have not implemented.
  const encoded = await fcl.send([
    fcl.transaction(code),
    fcl.payer(fcl.authz),
    fcl.proposer(fcl.authz),
    fcl.authorizations([fcl.authz]),
    fcl.limit(999),
    payload,
  ]);

  // Call `fcl.decode` to get the transaction ID.
  let txId = await fcl.decode(encoded);

  // This waits for the transaction to be sealed, which is a recommended way.
  await fcl.tx(txId).onceSealed();

  // Return the transaction ID
  return txId;
}

// Helper function to convert `pet` object to a {String: String} type.
function toCadenceDict(pet) {
  // Copy the pet object so we don't mutate the original.
  let newPet = {...pet};

  // Delete the `image` attribute that contains a `File` object.
  delete newPet.image;

  // Return an array of [{key: string, value: string}].
  return Object.keys(newPet).map((k) => ({key: k, value: pet[k]}));
}

```

As you can see, our `mintPet` function is a little involved.

> The first step we took was to convert the `pet` data to a type our Cadence contract understand, which a dictionary of type `{String: String}`. Basically, if the object looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step we took was to convert the `pet` data to a type our Cadence contract understands, which a dictionary of type `{String: String}`. Basically, if the object looks like this:
```

```js

[
    {key: "name", value: "Max"},
    {key: "age", value: "3"},
    {key: "breed", value: "Bulldog"},
]

```

This was what `toCadenceDict` function did, plus deleting the `image` attribute from the pet object because we didn't need it for minting on Flow.

After properly converting the object, we had to build a "payload" by calling `fcl.args` and pass an array of arguments. In this case, the metadata of type `[{key: string, value: string}]`.  To facilitate this, we used types from `fcl.types` library.

Next, we fetch the corresponding `MintToken.cdc` raw code. This is a standard way of fetching raw text from another module.

Now comes the meaty part of this function: Sending a transaction.

```js

const encoded = await fcl.send([
  fcl.transaction(code),
  fcl.payer(fcl.authz),
  fcl.proposer(fcl.authz),
  fcl.authorizations([fcl.authz]),
  fcl.limit(999),
  payload,
]);

```

There is a few ways to send a transaction, but `fcl.send([...])` is the most explicit way.

We pass the Cadence `code` to `fcl.transaction`, and any integer from 0 - 999 to `fcl.limit` for the gas fee limit we are happy with. The `payload` is the metadata we converted previously.

> The `payer`, `proposer`, and `authorizations` are a little complicate. While we won't dig deep into them, they accept a function known as *authorization function* that decides the account (and effectively the keys) used to authorize the transaction. (If you're interested in deep-diving, check out [Authorization Function][cdc-auth-function]). Here, `fcl` provided an `authz` default authorization function to makes signing with the emulator account easier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `payer`, `proposer`, and `authorizations` accept a function known as *authorization function* that decides the account (and effectively the keys) used to authorize the transaction. (If you're interested in deep-diving, check out [Authorization Function][cdc-auth-function]). Here, `fcl` provided an `authz` default authorization function to makes signing with the emulator account easier.
```

> Now all that is left to do is to return to the main `mintToken` function to complete it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Return the Flow transaction ID

Now all that is left to do is to return to the main `mintToken` function to complete it:
```

```js

// This is a fallible function.
async function mintToken(pet) {

  // The metadata contains the attribute `url` which is an IFPS URL
  // pointing to the data.json.
  const { url } = await uploadToStorage(pet);

  // We want to include the IPFS URL to the blockchain, so we can
  // "unpack" the token data when we query it later. So we create
  // a new object with all of the pet's attributes plus `url`.
  const txId = await mintPet({ ...pet, url });
  return txId;
}

// Don't forget to export the function.
export default mintToken;

```

> Our `mintToken` function is ready to work. We should return to `Form.js`,add a `handleSubmit` handler (right after `setAge` function), and pass to the `onSubmit` prop on the `<form>` element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our `mintToken` function is ready to work. We should return to `Form.js`, add a `handleSubmit` handler (right after `setAge` function), and pass to the `onSubmit` prop on the `<form>` element.
```

```js

// Form.js

// On the top most of the module
import mintToken from '../flow/transaction/MintToken.tx';

const Form = () => {

  // ... setAge function ...

  const handleSubmit = async (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();
    try {
      await mintToken(pet);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    }
  }

  return (
    <div style={style}>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>

        {/* ... other elements ... */}

      </form>
    </div>

  );

```

> And we wrap up the minting step! Here is the [full code][source] if you have lost your track. Test out the UI, select an image file, fill up the metadata on the form, and click the mint button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This wraps up the minting step! Here is the [full code][source] for a handy reference. Now you can test the UI, select an image file, fill up the metadata on the form, and click the mint button.
```
also, do you want to explicitly how to test the UI (ie load the js page into browser)?

> Feel free to sit back and appreciate what you have achieved. Now is the time to fill up your coffee and take a wholesome break you deserve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feel free to sit back and appreciate what you have achieved. Now is the time to fill up your coffee and take a well -deserved break before we move on to the last bit: querying a token.
```

> We will be back to work on the last bit--Querying a token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
moved into above.

## Querying the token

> Now that we have a mean to mint pet tokens, let's build another form UI to query them for metadata and image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we can mint pet tokens, let's build another form UI to query them for metadata and image.
```

      {
        // We only display the table if there's metadata.
        metadata ? <MetadataTable metadata={metadata} /> : null 
      }
    </div>
  );
};

const MetadataTable = ({ metadata }) => (
  <table className="u-full-width">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        {
          Object.keys(metadata).map((field,i) => (
            // Skip the `url` attribute in metadata for the table headings.
            field === 'url' ? null : <th key={i}>{field}</th>
          ))
        }
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        {
          Object.keys(metadata).map((field, i) => {
            switch (field) {
              // Skip displaying the url.
              case 'url':
                return null;
              // Display the image as <img> tag.
              case 'image':
                return (
                  <td key={i}>
                    <img src={metadata[field]} width="60px" />
                  </td>
                );
              // Default is to display data as text.
              default:
                return <td key={i}>{metadata[field]}</td>;
            }
          })
        }
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
);

export default QueryForm;

```

> Ok, I did promise this to be simpler, but you will soon see that in fact, it is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

As usual, we need to create JavaScript "bindings" to two Cadence scripts `GetTokenMetadata.cdc` and `GetAllTokenIds.cdc`. We will start with `GetAllTokenIds.sc.js`.

```js

// GetAllTokenIds.sc.js

import * as fcl from '@onflow/fcl';
import raw from './GetAllTokenIds.cdc';

async function getAllTokenIds() {

  // Fetch the `GetAllTokenIds.cdc` script as text.
  let cdc = await(await fetch(raw)).text();

  // Read the script, send it, and wait for the response.
  const encoded = await fcl.send([fcl.script(cdc)]);

  // Decode the response into a JavaScript array of IDs.
  const tokenIds = await fcl.decode(encoded);

  // Sort the IDs in ascending order and return the array.
  return tokenIds.sort((a, b) => a - b);
}

export default getAllTokenIds;

```

> Hopefully, by now you are an expect at this. You can follow the comments to see what went on in each step. It's worth switching back and take a look at `GetAllTokenIds.cdc` to see how they both interact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hopefully, by now you are an expert at this. It's worth switching back and taking a look at `GetAllTokenIds.cdc` to see how the Javascript bindings and Cadence scripts interact.
```

> Next up, we create `GetTokenMetadata.sc.js` that will take care of executing `GetTokenMetadata.cdc` script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next up, we create `GetTokenMetadata.sc.js` to execute the `GetTokenMetadata.cdc` script.
```

```js

// GetTokenMetadata.sc.js

import * as fcl from '@onflow/fcl';
import * as t from '@onflow/types';
import raw from './GetTokenMetadata.cdc';

async function getTokenMetadata(id) {
    let script = await(await fetch(raw)).text();
    const encoded = await fcl.send([
        fcl.script(script),
        fcl.args([fcl.arg(id, t.UInt64)]),
    ]);
    const data = await fcl.decode(encoded);
    return data;
}

export default getTokenMetadata;

```

> I'll leave you to figure out what this did (Again, check out `GetTokenMetadata.cdc` to see what kind of interface it offers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, you can review `GetTokenMetadata.cdc` to see the relationships between the interfaces offered and how we used them in this function.
```

> Now we are ready to return to `QueryForm.jsx`.  Import the functions we worked on as the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we are ready to return to `QueryForm.jsx`.  Import the functions we worked on:
```

  }, []);

  const handleSubmit = async (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();

    // Add this block to the submit handler.
    try {
      // Call the `getTokenMetadata` function and extract the
      // IPFS URL from the data returned.
      let metadata = await getTokenMetadata(selectedId);
      let dataURL = toGatewayURL(metadata.url);

      // Fetch the URL to get a JSON response, which contains
      // an `image` attribute.
      // create a new metadata object and set the metadata to the value.
      let { image } = await (await fetch(dataURL)).json();
      let newdata = { ...metadata, image: toGatewayURL(image) };
      setMetadata(newdata);
    } catch(err) {
      window.alert('Token ID does not exist!');
    }
  }

  // ...The component code unchanged...
}

```

In the `useEffect` callback, we replaced the stubbed ID array with the call to
`getAllTokenIds` function, which executed `GetAllTokenIds.cdc` and returned an
array of existing token IDs. We then call `setTokenIds` to set `allTokenIds` to
the array. This is used to fill up the `<option>` element with the IDs and act as
the UI guard to make sure users can only choose the available tokens to query.

> In the "empty" `handleSubmit` handler function, which is called everytime the query button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the "empty" `handleSubmit` handler function, which is called each time the query button
```

is clicked, we added a `try-catch` block which called `getTokenMetadata` with the ID user
selected in `selectedId`, and return the metadata of the selected NFT.

> We recall that as part of metadata in minting, we included the `url` attribute from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember that as part of metadata in minting, we included the `url` attribute from the
```

NFT.storage upload. This `url` is an IPFS URL in the form of `ipfs://<CID>/data.json`.
We are interested in this URL because it points to the JSON data containing the URL to
the pet image we uploaded to IPFS. To fetch it using JavaScript, we had to convert the IPFS
URL to the HTTP gateway URL with [`toGatewayURL`](https://nftstorage.github.io/nft.storage/client/modules.html#toGatewayURL). Once we fetched the JSON and convert to an object, we access the
`image` attribute, convert it to HTTP URL, and include it along with other data in the new metadata 
object we set the state with `setMetadata`. It is then ready for the `MetadataTable` component
to display.

Note that in the case of error, `handleSubmit` would call `window.alert` and display a simple popup
window to notify the user.

There was no change needed for the component code.

Now, try to mint an NFT with the mint form, and query it with the query form! Hopefully, it should all work as intended.

Congratulations! You have single-handedly built a NFT minting and querying marketplace on Flow. This has been a great achievement!

## Next steps

> Flow's focus on developer's experience and the accessibility of its smart contract language Cadence, plus its low gas fee and high throughput make it an extremely promising blockchain to build NFT-related apps on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flow's focus on developer's experience and the accessibility of its smart contract language Cadence, plus its low gas fee and high throughput, make it an extremely promising blockchain to build NFT-related apps on.
```

---
title: Building an NFT Marketplace on Flow
description: A step-by-step guide to build an NFT pet marketplace on Flow.
issueUrl: https://github.com/protocol/nft-website/issues/146
related:
  'How to Create NFTs Like NBA Top Shot With Flow and IPFS': https://medium.com/pinata/how-to-create-nfts-like-nba-top-shot-with-flow-and-ipfs-701296944bf
  'Mint an NFT with IPFS': https://docs.ipfs.io/how-to/mint-nfts-with-ipfs/#a-short-introduction-to-nfts
---

# Building an NFT Marketplace on Flow

> This tutorial will teach you to create a simple NFT marketplace on [Flow][flow] from scratch.

Author: Will include this!
